03/README.md, before:

Lesson 3
========

Prerequistes
-----

* Projector
* Instructor laptop
* Laptops for the students

Pre-Lesson
-----

Before starting the lesson, we will be creating a shared rules list for the class. Talking to the Jamestown staff, they have a few suggestions of keeping order in the classroom. They also do these things called Check-In Circles and pre-class routines in their other classes. In order to make our class more like the others in this program, we will also be doing these as well.

# Creating a Shared Rules list (This should be moved to first lesson of the semester)

Before class begins and before they get their laptops, have the entire class sit down. Just like their other classes, we are also going to create a shared rules for the classroom. We will hand out pencils and index cards to each student to have them come up with a "good" rule that we should have for the class. Once, they are finished, they will hand in thier index card and then get their laptop.

Once everyone has handed in thier index card, we will write up the rules that people came up with on the white board and then vote and discuss if these are the rules that we want to have. Then have a vote with the class to "approve" the rules list. If everything works out, then we now have a rules list. By having the students vote and create these rules, they feel like they are more involved with it rather than having someone tell them exactly what to do.

Lesson
-------

This lesson we are going to try something new. We are going to be using code.org. To have them check it out, it provides some nice teaching modules and fun interactive activities that are more game like than anything I have seen. But before we do that, there is a concept that still needs to be taught.


Loops
------

Back to our soccer game, we have this goalie at the top of the screen that is going to try and stop our ball from scoring. However, right now, we need a way to be able to make him go back and forth. Can anyone help me make him go to all the way to the right? How about now all the way to the left?

Cool, so we have our goalie going to the left and to the right. Now, how do we make him keep doing that? (Maybe field answers of stacking the blocks together.) Eventually, someone will talk about just make him keep doing that. This is where the ```repeat``` block comes into play. Will be explaining the concept of how computers are really good at doing the same thing over and over again.

Ask for a voluteneer. Ask them what is your favorite game? They will tell you (hopefully). Tell them that you are not done yet, ask them again what their favorite game is. Keep doing this for a while and then eventually ask. This is kind of boring right? You keep giving me the same answer over and over again. Well, computers never really get tired, you can keep asking them the same thing and they are really good at telling you the same thing over and over again.

Ask for any questions about loops (we will be practicing them later.)

Code.org
-------

Print and hand each person a card with the credentials to access the code.org tutorials. Explain what it is and what they will be doing. They will be using their skills that they learned with scratch in order to get the bird to the hog and eventually they will be moving a zombie to a plant. This is their opportunty to use what they learned the past couple of exercises and try to complete each challenge.

Don't worry if you get stuck or don't remember it. We will be walking around to help you out. Once you are done, let one of us know.

Extra Time
---------

If we have extra time, ask some of the students to help their neighbors if they are getting stuck. Otherwise, there is some more tutorials and games after the main hour of code challenge.

Commit message:

Added code.org url for our class to lesson 3

03/README.md, after:

Lesson 3
========

Prerequistes
-----

* Projector
* Instructor laptop
* Laptops for the students

Pre-Lesson
-----

Before starting the lesson, we will be creating a shared rules list for the class. Talking to the Jamestown staff, they have a few suggestions of keeping order in the classroom. They also do these things called Check-In Circles and pre-class routines in their other classes. In order to make our class more like the others in this program, we will also be doing these as well.

# Creating a Shared Rules list (This should be moved to first lesson of the semester)

Before class begins and before they get their laptops, have the entire class sit down. Just like their other classes, we are also going to create a shared rules for the classroom. We will hand out pencils and index cards to each student to have them come up with a "good" rule that we should have for the class. Once, they are finished, they will hand in thier index card and then get their laptop.

Once everyone has handed in thier index card, we will write up the rules that people came up with on the white board and then vote and discuss if these are the rules that we want to have. Then have a vote with the class to "approve" the rules list. If everything works out, then we now have a rules list. By having the students vote and create these rules, they feel like they are more involved with it rather than having someone tell them exactly what to do.

Lesson
-------

This lesson we are going to try something new. We are going to be using code.org. To have them check it out, it provides some nice teaching modules and fun interactive activities that are more game like than anything I have seen. But before we do that, there is a concept that still needs to be taught.


Loops
------

Back to our soccer game, we have this goalie at the top of the screen that is going to try and stop our ball from scoring. However, right now, we need a way to be able to make him go back and forth. Can anyone help me make him go to all the way to the right? How about now all the way to the left?

Cool, so we have our goalie going to the left and to the right. Now, how do we make him keep doing that? (Maybe field answers of stacking the blocks together.) Eventually, someone will talk about just make him keep doing that. This is where the ```repeat``` block comes into play. Will be explaining the concept of how computers are really good at doing the same thing over and over again.

Ask for a voluteneer. Ask them what is your favorite game? They will tell you (hopefully). Tell them that you are not done yet, ask them again what their favorite game is. Keep doing this for a while and then eventually ask. This is kind of boring right? You keep giving me the same answer over and over again. Well, computers never really get tired, you can keep asking them the same thing and they are really good at telling you the same thing over and over again.

Ask for any questions about loops (we will be practicing them later.)

Code.org
-------

Print and hand each person a card with the credentials to access the code.org tutorials. Explain what it is and what they will be doing. They will be using their skills that they learned with scratch in order to get the bird to the hog and eventually they will be moving a zombie to a plant. This is their opportunty to use what they learned the past couple of exercises and try to complete each challenge.

Don't worry if you get stuck or don't remember it. We will be walking around to help you out. Once you are done, let one of us know.

Our class URL is: http://studio.code.org/sections/NXFDIQ. Each student has their own secret image that is associated with their account. No need to sign up or put in email addresses, etc.

Extra Time
---------

If we have extra time, ask some of the students to help their neighbors if they are getting stuck. Otherwise, there is some more tutorials and games after the main hour of code challenge.
